As some decisions could have long lasting effect on a person’s life, I strongly agree that decisions should never be taken through one’s own volition especially the important ones. I feel this way for two reasons which I will examine in this essay.

Long before democracy became the widely accepted and adopted method for public governance, monarchy was the more prevalent form of governance. And since, decisions in monarchy were taken by a sole representative, public welfare depended almost entirely on the nature of the monarch. For instance, if the monarch was sensible and receptive enough to pay heed to his counsel, he could be easily reasoned with. And his rein would be a peaceful one, bringing people joy and pleasure. Such was the rein of the great Marcus Aurelius. However, if the monarch were a capricious and mad one, doing anything as he pleases, as was the case for Aurelius’s son Commodus, he would bring his people more suffering than joy in his rein. Even during later times, the rein of another dictator, Adolf Hitler, is notoriously remembered for committing inhuman atrocities on the Jews and massacring them in gas chambers. Thus, history is rife with examples that advise against taking decisions alone.

Moreover, decisions taken alone have the disadvantage of being partially-informed or based on partially correct information, thus not evoking a full picture. And since different people have diverse opinions, a person is always learning and accounting for a new information, which he may not have been aware of before. For example, in my personal life, before making any major decisions I always seek the advise of my parents, elders and peers. And this has helped me tremendously. When I was applying to colleges for my under graduation, talking to different seniors helped me realise the characteristics that I should look for in an institute. And one advise that I received was to look for a campus that also offers extra-curricular activities and clubs. Ultimately, this proved to be the difference maker in my eventual choice. Thus, by listening varied opinions and incorporating them in our decision, we are bound to benefit from making decisions on greater knowledge.

While many people advocate for independence in thought, action or decision stating that a person would learn through his failures, it’s not necessary to suffer failures to learn a lesson especially when one can be learnt through the experiences of our elders. Thus, as enticing and as glorious as taking decisions alone may seem, it’s always advisable to seek another opinion to make a more informed decision.
