With the rapid advances in science and technology, we have now been able to automate a lot of the activities which previously required human intervention. The automated processes are efficient, economical and hence are more and more being adopted by businesses and industries alike. As such, the activities that were traditionally performed by people is now being performed by machines. Thus, I agree that increasing automation will effectively lead to people losing their ‘current’ jobs but at the same time it will also lead to the creation of new jobs. Let me explain why.

First of all, this change is not the first of its kind. During the industrial revolution, the handmade goods such as clothes, utensils and other goods were replaced by high-quality mass-produced  machine-produced goods. These goods were identical and did not have the idiosyncrasies or unique design and make of the traditional goods. Yet, even though the artisans lost their jobs, there was also a creation of jobs as industrial workers. Not only this, it also presented an opportunity to focus our attention on more intricate problems which led to the development of the current information economy and the software industry. Even in the Wall Street, most of the earlier work of the traders of bidding and selling is now automated through machines, however this has provided them more time to work on the convoluted problems of formulating mathematical models for analysing behaviours and uncertainty involved in commodities.

There are even more current examples of this in real life such as that of Amazon Smart Mart, where everything is meing managed by robots, drones and AI that replace traditional marts where humans would assist in navigating the customers and finally generating bills at the cash counters. While this replaces mundane manual activities, it also allowes more time to be devoted to actually improving the design or think of further improvements in the store. Likewise, the advent of self-driving cars that supplant human driving is not only going to reduce further accidents but also will keep the person fresh so that he can work on his job with more vigour and enthusiasm.

Thus, the above examples provide enough evidence that while traditional jobs will go away due to automation, it will also free up humans to devote more time to more byzantine fields which he was not able to focus on earlier. For instance, the more abstruse problem of climate change could be tackled.

Because of this ongoing process, human activities are being replaced by automations. 
