The article and the lecture deal with increasing sea level over the past decades. While the article calls this a ‘normal’ process and that there is nothing much to worry about this as humanity will have enough time to acclimatise themselves, the lecturer stands in direct contraditction of this, clearly describing this as an unnatural process which would result in drastic changes, not permitting enough time for the mankind to adjust.

To begin with, the reading claims that analysis of the data and in-depth study of the matter renders this evident that the increase in sea level is a natural process, which one should not be alarmed about. However, the professor contradicts this asserting that there is ‘no doubt’ that this process is not a natural phenomenon and that human activity is responsible for it. Over the years, humans have burned fossil fuels without restraint, leading to the greenhouse effect which has resulted in increase in permafrost melting that would under ordinary circumstances have taken 10,000 years to take place. This is 100 times faster than the present rate and hence abnormal.  

Next, while the author claims that there is no consensus about the source for the additional water causing the rise in sea level even among scientific agencies such as the NASA, the lecturer stands in direct contradiction of this maintaining that the source is already accounted for which is the melting of permafrost, ice present on lands which usually never melts. She argues that since this ice is already not present in the ocean like the polar ice, its melting results in an addition to the water in the ocean. To illustrate this, she provides the example of Greenland in northern Siberia where this has happened. She also states that the NASA has already accounted for this connection and that the only unknown is the process through which this occurs.

Thus, the speaker refutes the claim that humans will not have time to adjust to the dramatic shift caused due to increase in sea level. And it is high time that an action should be taken, else the day is not far when 20% of the landforms will submerge under water. And the first to submerge would be the places that are located on or near the oceans.

----------------------------------------------------------

While the passage downplays the importance and the need for immediate action to the phenomenon of increasing sea level, the professor repudiates it. In the lecture, the professor mentions that current research provides irrefutable proof has proven that there is no doubt that the sea level has risen over time.

While the professor agrees that melting ice caps is not pertinent to the rise in sea level, she attributes this fall to the melting of permafrost which refers to ice on land that usually never melts. As these ice deposits are actually never in the sea, the water melting from these actually results in an addition to the existing volume of the sea, thereby increasing the sea level. 

And even though the NASA has not been able to explain this mechanism through a process, it does affirm that melting permafrosts are the primary reason for an increase in sea level. Moreover, NASA is also trying to establish a concrete relationship between the two. There are also studies that show that perhaps we may have underestimated the amount of water stored in permafrosts. This understimation would help explain the extra amount of water, the source for which was previously unaccounted for.

In conclusion, the professor vehemently disagrees that this seemingly slow and gradual process would provide humanity enough time to adjust. Human activities such as burning fossils have resulted in greenhouse effect, which in turn has expedited the melting process by nearly 100 times. As such, this process is unnatural as well as unprecedented and comparisons with older data are immaterial to the subject at hand. And we may, in reality, not have enough time to acclimatise to this change. Moreover, it is estimated that we may lose close to  20% landmass and since a large population resides on or close to the sea, we may need to act as soon as possible to make necessary rehabilitations and accomodations. 
