The lecture and the reading both deal with smart cars. These cars are so technologically advanced that they can virtually drive themselves. Whilst the passage provides three reasons in support of adoption of such cars, the lecturer is evidently against their adoption, stating that their adoption would not have the intended benefits as detailed in the passage. 

To begin with, the article posits that since the smart cars make use of sensors and highly advanced equipments that can accurately detect other cars and obstructions in path, they will lead to abatement of accidents. However, the professor refutes it is not certain whether the expectations of reduced accidents could actually be realised. In fact, as roads become highly packed with cars due to their automatic detection, any technological failure would result in accidents far worse than the ones that would have occurred otherwise. And as most technological advancements suffer from failure, this is quite probable.

Secondly, the author claims that traffic problems would nearly disappear due to widespread adoption of such cars. But, according to the lecturer,  it has been historically observed that introduction of any form of driving convenience has almost certainly brought more drivers on the road. As such, increase in highway speed may not result in curtailed commuting time. In fact, as more drivers take to road, the traffic could in reality get much worse than it already is.

Lastly, the article mentions that smart cars would lead to a significant reduction in costs of driving as it will lead to efficient driving and hence implicate that less money is spent on repairs and replacements. To this, the speaker counters that smart car adoption may not, in reality, result in saving more money. Since the global positioning systems are generally very expensive and installation of other advanced technical equipments such as sensors could in fact prove counterproductive leading to increase in maintenance and replacement costs instead of reducing them.
